Welcome back let's add the dropdown ability to this profile icon.
And luckily for us if we go back to react chape which we used and go to components that is nicely and
easily done with the button dropdown we see over here that we need a few elements and I can even copy
this entire piece of code.
But let's go one by one.
The first thing I want to do is I want to import some elements and let's space these out properly just
so we can see them.
Now that's better.
And actually now that I go back we don't really want a button dropdown.
We already have the button that is our avatar that's going to be the dropdown.
So let's actually grab a simple dropdown over here without worrying about the button.
Again I'm going to copy and paste this and let's change that up.
So you want to make sure that you use only what you need.
In our case looks like these four items is what we need.
All right.
And again going back to here we see that we need to have a steady state of dropdown open which we actually
have.
We need to bind this event and I'm going to talk about this in just a second.
In case you haven't seen it before don't worry.
We're going to talk about it.
And let's just copy for now.
This dropdown return component.
I'm going to come down here.
And for now just
plop it in right after or right before our icon.
All right.
The first thing we want to check out is the is open which comes from this state dropdown open which
we already have.
And it also has a toggle function which we're going to get back to if we go down to dropdown toggle
we have a few options and then our dropdown items as we can have a dropdown menu with our items.
Now in our case well we have two items that we want we want view profile and we want Sign-Up we don't
need any disabled ones and we don't need to worry about Hetter.
And these are all things like this that have certain actions.
We just want a normal another action WAHM which is over here without any attributes.
So let's just remove all the ones that we don't need.
And leave it at that.
Now if I just save this like that I'm going to get a few error and one of the errors is going to be
the fact that we're returning multiple things.
Ideally these are wrapped in something.
So let's wrap it all.
Because remember with react to you want to return a single thing ordinary of elements.
So I'm just going to wrap it in a div tag
and with class name I'm going to give it some styling that again.
I've tested it out already.
So this is padding or for an text center because this isn't necessarily a CSSA course I'm using Tatiana's
just to simplify things and not spend too much time on CSX.
So if you ever see me typing these P-A for TCB search Tatian classes just automatically inject some
nice CSSA for us so things look good.
If you really want to know more about them than me just go to Tatiana's and they have great documentation
that you can use.
All right so this is now wrapped nicely in a div
all right everything is working.
If I go back now to my app so we have bind of undefined we haven't defined this Tuggle ability and that's
because again if we go back to react Schrempp we have this toggle function.
Again we can just copy it and the toggle function is very simple.
It just sets state using the callback method.
And this is just a way of anytime you update state you want to make sure that if you're ever within
the update set state function you're touching the state because it can act in predictable ways.
You want to have what we call a callback function where we make sure that we receive the previous state
so that we can act upon it.
In this case we're just saying that drop open we want to toggle it and we want to just turn it to the
opposite of what it currently is.
We're doing it this way because city state or state updates aren't actually run immediately as they're
called.
So we want to make sure that in order to avoid any buggy errors any time we're using state for an update
you have this syntax of a callback function and this bind here is happening again because of a little
quirk where this keyboard kind of gets messed around.
And another way of doing this you'll see this in a lot of Riak project of using the bind to make sure
that it binds to the component.
But another way that I like doing it that it's a lot cleaner is to just use our functions and that's
going to implicitly bind this for us and it just looks cleaner.
Let's say that and go back right Legault that we have our dropdown menu that looks pretty nice but that's
not really what rate we want to make sure that we can just click on the avatar and not have this drop
down thing.
Well luckily for us if we go back to our Riak trap if you scroll down there is an area called Custom
dropdown content and you see over here I just created a custom content here and it just does dropdown
and it's very simple to implement.
We just simply use the dropdown toggle and put the dropdown toggle inside of the dropdown toggle whatever
content we want.
So I'm going to just copy this
and instead of the dropdown toggle over here
I'm going to paste this piece of code.
And now this piece of code we can just keep it the way it is.
But instead of the custom dropdown content we can perhaps insert our little icon that we have.
So let's just grab the image or we can use the dev.
Let's see what happens if we just add the dev again in our custom dropdown component.
Make sure everything is aligned nicely.
Let's save go back to our app.
The clicking is not working.
What happened here.
Well let's go back.
Well the first thing that I notice here is that I'm using class instead of class name.
And remember we want to make sure that for react we use a class name.
And I bet if we open up the terminal and let's make this a little bit bigger it looks like property
class.
Did you mean class name.
So let's fix that.
I also see that since we're using this div up here we don't really need to do a padding.
We want the image to be a little bit higher and we can just remove the div
and again for the class make sure that we use class name.
Let's go back and again let's make sure that everything is working and figure out why the dropdown toggle
isn't working right now.
Again going back and if we actually go over here we'll see that we're doing something strange if we
go.
We see that there's a toggle call on the dropdown as well as a dropdown toggle that has an on click.
And if we actually console like here what is happening let's just say this is state DOT state DOT dropped
down open and I go back and open up the console and I click once I get this called twice.
And this is a really funny thing with their documentation.
You see that for the custom dropdown content.
They're actually doing the set state in the toggle function to just do the typical accessing the state
inside of the set state function which you actually don't want to do.
And their workaround is to actually do this but I recommend instead to just remove this on click function
because this is already happening.
And in that case if I go back and I click this only happens once and you see that.
Oh yeah.
Now our profile is working and we've got a nice little toggle.
How cool is that.
That is nice and simple.
Now let's remove the logging.
And you can experiment yourself to see how that works.
Again if you just pull back the click and add the this state DOT drop down and just update the object
it'll work that way.
But this is just a cleaner way of doing it.
I recommend you do it this way as well.
You can read up about using state inside of Seth state more on your own time is just a good practice
to have.
All right.
We have the dropdown functionality but the styling is kind of off.
So let's just fix that so instead of having it all the way up here it's a little bit lower maybe you
have some see through next to it.
Oh I have a few class name for us that we can use in the class or two dropdown menu.
I can give it a class name.
Again using Tatiana's I'll say that it's going to be a transparent background.
It's going to have a shadow so gives it that 3D feel.
A5 and then just to show you how it's done in case we wanted the styling as well.
We can also do or we want to have our own styles.
I can't just have a style attribute here.
And let's just give it a margin.
Top of 20 pixels began just to bring it down a bit and I want some transparency so let's just say that
we want background color.
Let me just move this on a new line.
There you go.
That's a lot cleaner.
And again because this is javascript we don't do the dash color like we do with CSSA it's camel case
and background color is going to be let's just give it the fall or this has to be a string.
We'll do an R G B.
So we can have some transparency and we'll do 2:55 2:55 2:55.
So it's going to be white with 0.5 Alpha which is transparency.
All right let's save that and see if that works.
Let's have a look.
All right look at that.
That looks a lot better doesn't it.
Like I said I kind of cheated with selling here.
I've done it before hand.
I usually like to code live and debug with you as I go.
But when it comes to styling is just one of those things that it's nice to have before hand.
You can play around and add your own styling as you want but you know what this is looking pretty nice.
I'm pretty happy with how we have things.
I think we need to add some functionality though so that when we click these things actually do something
I will do that in the next video.
I'll see on that one.